# New Methods Introduced in ES6
## `Object.assign`
`Object.assign` is used to copy the values of all [[enumerable]] own properties from one or more source objects to a target object. It returns the target object. Note this is shallow copy. It will take later one for same property.

```javascript
const target = { a: 1, b: 2 };
const source = { b: 3, c: 4 };
const result = Object.assign(target, source);
// { a: 1, b: 3, c: 4 }

const obj1 = { a: 1, b: 2 };
const obj2 = { b: 3, c: 4 };
const merged = Object.assign({}, obj1, obj2);
// { a: 1, b: 3, c: 4 }
```

## `Object.is`

`Object.is` is used to determine whether two values are the same value. It is similar to the strict equality operator `===`, but there are some differences:
- `NaN` is considered the same as `NaN`.
- `+0` and `-0` are considered different.

```javascript
Object.is(NaN, NaN); // true
Object.is(+0, -0); // false
```

## `Object.keys`

`Object.keys` is used to return an array of a given object's own enumerable property names.

```javascript
const obj = { a: 1, b: 2, c: 3 };
const keys = Object.keys(obj);
// ['a', 'b', 'c']
```

## `Object.values`

`Object.values` is used to return an array of a given object's own enumerable property values.

```javascript
const obj = { a: 1, b: 2, c: 3 };
const values = Object.values(obj);
// [1, 2, 3]
```

## `Object.entries`

`Object.entries` is used to return an array of a given object's own enumerable property [key, value] pairs.

```javascript
const obj = { a: 1, b: 2, c: 3 };
const entries = Object.entries(obj);
// [['a', 1], ['b', 2], ['c', 3]]
```

These methods are useful for iterating over objects and working with their properties in various scenarios.

## `Array.from`

`Array.from` is used to create a new, shallow-copied Array instance from an array-like or iterable object. Optional parameters allow mapping each element through a function, transforming them during creation.

```javascript
const arrayLike = { 0: 'a', 1: 'b', length: 2 };
const arr = Array.from(arrayLike);
// ['a', 'b']
```

## `Array.of`

`Array.of` is used to create a new Array instance with a variable number of elements, regardless of number or type of the arguments. This method is especially useful when you want to create an array from a set of elements.

```javascript
const arr1 = Array.of(1, 2, 3);
// [1, 2, 3]
```