### How to diagnose performance issues in a slow HTML5 page?
Start by asking the interviewer whether the issue is related to slow operations or slow loading times to narrow down the problem scope and demonstrate proactive communication skills. Then, check for any errors; if there are errors, start investigating from there. If there are no errors, use Chrome's Performance tools for further investigation.

#### Front-end Performance Metrics
- **First Paint (FP):** The time it takes for the browser to render the first pixel to the screen.
- **First Contentful Paint (FCP):** The time it takes for the browser to render the first DOM content.
- **First Meaningful Paint (FMP):** Deprecated. This metric was used to measure the time it takes for the browser to render meaningful content for the first time. It has been replaced by LCP.
- **DOMContentLoaded (DCL):** The time it takes for the DOM to be fully loaded and parsed.
- **Largest Contentful Paint (LCP):** The time it takes for the largest content element in the viewport to become visible.
- **Load:** The time it takes for the entire page and all its resources to fully load.

These metrics are arranged in chronological order: FP < FCP < FMP < DCL < LCP < Load.

#### Chrome DevTools
- **Performance:** Records page performance data, including CPU, memory, network, rendering, and more. Enabling screenshots captures web page snapshots, and timing indicators can show the metrics mentioned above.
- **Network:** Analyzes network requests, including the resources requested, timeline, size, and more. It also shows an overview of performance metrics when enabled.
- In React devtools, settings, general, check "Highlight updates when components render". It can also record performance like chrome devtools. It is more specific to React and comprehensive.
- ```javascript
    function foo() {
    debugger;
    console.log('foo');
    }
    ```
    In chrome devtools, you can use `debugger` to pause the execution of the code and inspect the variables. 

#### Lighthouse
A popular third-party performance evaluation tool that works on both mobile and desktop. It provides an overall score, including the above metrics, and offers optimization suggestions such as using next-gen image formats (e.g., WebP, AVIF), compressing and correctly sizing images, which can save loading time.

**Example:**
```
npm install -g lighthouse
lighthouse https://www.baidu.com --view --preset=desktop
```

#### Web Page Loading Slowly?
- Improve server hardware configurations, use CDN.
- Implement route lazy loading and asynchronously load large components to reduce the main package size.
- Optimize HTTP caching strategies.

#### Slow Rendering?
- Optimize backend services (e.g., slow AJAX data fetching).
- Further analyze and optimize the logic within front-end components.
- Implement server-side rendering (SSR).

#### Continuous Follow-up
Performance optimization is a gradual process, unlike bug fixes which can often be resolved quickly. Continuously monitor performance, identify bottlenecks, and implement optimizations progressively. Utilize third-party analytics services such as Alibaba Cloud ARMS, Baidu Analytics, or Google Analytics for ongoing performance tracking.

#### Summary
Analyze performance metrics to identify the root causes of slowness, address issues specifically, and continuously improve and optimize for better performance.

### My Improve performance experience

In Shopee's CMT project, we had a requirement to enhance the user experience by adding a "Set Metrics" button to the drawer filter interface. When users click the filter button on the table, a drawer containing various filter fields appears. Our goal was to integrate a "Set Metrics" button at the top of this drawer, allowing users to customize their view. Upon clicking the "Set Metrics" button, a modal should pop up, enabling users to select which fields they want to display in the drawer filter.

We were using a useDrawerFilter custom hook to manage the filter drawer options, the result is passed to the table component as a prop. 

The initial design involved managing state through a useSetMetrics custom hook, which maintained two key states: one for tracking selected metrics that changed with user selections in the "Set Metrics" modal (representing unsaved changes) and another for saved changes. The useMetrics hook was then called within the useDrawerFilter hook to retrieve these states, utilizing the saved changes to determine which fields to display. 

However, a significant issue arose when the "Set Metrics" modal was opened; any selection or deselection of fields would trigger a re-render of the useDrawerFilter hook due to updates in the unsaved changes state. This unintended re-rendering affected the entire table, causing it to refresh every time a change was made, resulting in a noticeable delay of around half a second for updates. This behavior created a frustrating user experience and highlighted the need for a more efficient state management approach.

Initially, I was unsure of the cause of the performance issue. To investigate, I utilized Chrome DevTools to record the application's performance. The recording revealed that JavaScript calculations were consuming nearly all the processing time. Upon further inspection, I discovered that the React Diff function was taking an excessive amount of time, indicating that something was being re-rendered too frequently. To pinpoint the issue, I opened the React DevTools and enabled the "Show re-rendered components" feature. This allowed me to identify that the entire table component was re-rendering with every selection change made in the "Set Metrics" modal, confirming my suspicion that unnecessary re-renders were significantly impacting performance.

The final solution involved moving the useSetMetrics hook inside the SetMetricsButton component, which effectively isolated the state management for metrics selection. This change prevented unnecessary re-renders of the useDrawerFilter hook and its parent components whenever the state of the "Set Metrics" modal changed.

The useDrawerFilter hook continued to manage the state of selected fields, with a callback function for updating the state passed to the button component. This callback was only invoked when the save button in the modal was clicked, ensuring that the hook's state was updated only when necessary.

After implementing this change, performance improved significantly; however, it was still not sufficient. The modal's closing animation was sluggish due to lingering performance issues, negatively impacting the user experience. To address this, I optimized the process by allowing the animation to complete before calling the callback to update the state.

While further optimization could involve managing the drawer filter directly within the table component and passing a callback to update its state, I opted not to pursue this approach because the Shanghai Team did not have access to the necessary library.